Okay, now was Colonel Patton in charge at this
time? Colonel Patton was more or less a
second-in-command of the 2nd Armored Division as
a colonel and he promoted the brigadier and then to
division commander. And he remained as division
commander until we started for Africa We landed in
Africa on November the 8th, 1942.
Just prior to that time, I had
been assigned, I had been pulled out of the 2nd Army
Division temporarily and assigned to the 5th Army
Division out in California to do some, make some
determinations in the desert on whether or not we
have gasoline engines or diesel engines. The
schooling was the forerunner of that. So, I ran
these tests out in the desert. As soon as that was
over,
six months, I guess, or so. I was sent
on a very sensitive mission to South America by
another agency of our government. And when I
finished that- Well, can you tell me
about that?
A member of the Navy and I from the Army had been
selected.
Best I can say to you is that German submarines were
putting people ashore in Brazil. Agents ashore.
And I was sent to Belém, Brazil.
there
in activities which I don't want to discuss. This
is in 1942? No, this was in 1942.
And then I went- Then did you miss Operation Torch
or did you go through with the landing in North
Africa? I missed it by a few days, joined them just
about the time it was over with. Well, why did they
pick you to take on the sensitive
mission to Brazil? I think that determination was
made by my
regimental and division commander at the time,
which they had been placed a requirement to send a
guy of a certain caliber and mentality and
experience and that sort of thing.
So that's what happened. And how long did this
last? It lasted until
December
of about the first of December 1942
and I went straight away back to the Second Army
Division. So it was an OSS operation basically?
Sort of thing, yes. Except
another branch of the federal government had a
responsibility.
And the reason I don't want to touch on that too much
is a simple reason that
there is still conflict within our government as
to who has responsibilities on certain security
matters outside the United States. There's a lot
of controversy. And I don't want to get involved in
participating in that. I just know that we didn't
have a CIA back in the old days, but we did have a FBI,
right? And a damn good one under one of the greatest
guys that ever lived, J. Edgar Hoover. And I don't
see his picture here, but it's in this household
somewhere. He was one hell of a man. I don't give a
damn what people say about him now. I think he's one
of the greatest guys that we've ever had. So you had
an opportunity to meet him? Oh, I know him, yes.
Well, now that we're on him, can you describe your
meeting with him? Well, he was a man of uncommon
loyalty and honesty to the United States of
America. Uncommon in that regard. Ruthless on
inefficiencies and any incompetencies that
might occur, and I believe in all those things. I am
very ruthless, and I've become very
controversial in the military about that sort of
thing. Amongst seniors who should be very
confident or shouldn't be there.
I felt this very strongly about him. I thought he
was a nice warm man and I liked him very much.
Warm usually isn't the word that most people use
with Jagger. No, but he had a personal feeling. He
treated me that way, I tell you.
And did you get to meet him then in 1942 or was this
later on? Later on, later on. Later on. And in what
capacity?
I've been a very strong law enforcement type guy.
You can see a few badges up there.
I think that
that the military has a responsibility for not
only exterior but interior security, but I would
like to thank the people that's got the greatest
responsibility for interior security as our
national state and county police systems for
internal security. For external security, the
Army, Navy, and Air Force, and Marines, and the
Coast Guard.
But in order, if the internal security, the
interior, had a problem
that it can't cope with, The Army, Navy, Air Force,
Coast Guard, Marines are there to assist. So, if
you're doing your job in the military, and
particularly in the Army,
you've got to know as much about the internal
security makeup and systems and how it performs
and works and its inadequacies and its advantages
and disadvantages and and that sort of thing in
order for you to properly support it and work with
it. And as a result of that, I gained their respect
and confidence wherever I signed in the United
States. And I've been involved in many seminars
with law enforcement agencies. We're in the FBI
and the alcohol, tobacco, people, the county
sheriffs, the
municipal chief of police,
state security elements, state highway patrol,
and so on and forth involved in. I've lectured in
their schools continuously ever go, worked with
them. and offered advice and assistance and
gained their support and the management of my own
30 or 40,000 man fort and the people that's
involved and that sort of stuff, you see. So,
that's how it came about. Well, tell me about
Patton.
Well, I like to say this, that
First off, I can't be a Patton. Nobody can be a
Patton. Nobody can be me. Nobody can be you. And
some people say, oh, he's trying to be another
Patton. Anybody's foolish and unknowingly
foolish if they say that about anybody.
But I like... the way he operated. I liked the way he
could ride a horse. I liked the way he could shoot a
shotgun. I
liked the way he could run a yacht. I liked the way he
was really a proud historian.
That's what made George Patton his history.
George, he graduated. He took a five-year course
at West Point like I did at A&M, except I didn't have
to go the fifth year. I just had to wait out my
diploma. He took five years at West Point to get
through.
But history made George the love of history, just
like that's what's going to do for you. You see? Why
do you want to go out and make the same mistake next
year that was made 35 years ago? Well, the reason
you do it is you didn't know it was made 35 years ago
or you wouldn't make it, would you? Huh? Well, how
in the hell did you find out what happened 35 years
ago? By God, you've got to study history. Now,
sometimes you're going to find that it was
recorded very poorly and it's very difficult to
interpret, and there's an art of recording. so
people can interpret, you know, a recording
history. The main thing I guess about that is the
fact that you've got to, and I found this true in the
military, that to record everything that
occurred in this particular battle that's been
going on for the last five days, at the conclusion
of it, is a very wasteful thing to history. because
there's no way you can remember every detail it
should have been recorded every day at the end of
the day but who is it that can go five days and five
nights and close in the rural pocket and I did that
on the north and record everything sometime
during the night When you're so dead tired and
you're so worried about your troops and worried
about getting your objective, who in the hell is
going to spend the time on writing what happened
that day? And who can afford a historian when
you're running your tank cruiser short?
History, we lose so much of history. It's so
invaluable. And then somebody tries to go back and
make it up, and then we accept that as a fact when it
wasn't a fact. I'll tell you what I'm saying to you
has cost us a great president,
Dick Nixon. In my view, he was trying to record
history as it really was. and not what somebody
writes about it four years ago when he forgot about
what had happened and he filled in. What
contribution does that make? In other words, the
use of the taping system? Absolutely. Let's get
back to Patton here now. When did you first meet
George Patton? I met George Patton in July 1940 at
Fort Benning, Georgia. July 14th. I met him at the
division headquarters. Oh, your first
impressions? My first impression was that, god
damn, that guy really is a sharp looking officer.
And I saw a distinguished service cross. That's
next to the Congressional Medal of Honor. Now, you
can get the Congressional Medal of Honor.
Occasionally, you'll find a guy that lives, but
most of the time they're posthumously. So, a
distinguished service cross is a very sort of
thing for Extraordinary Heroes, and I liked that.
And he had a silver star. I know what that is, too.
And a very interesting thing that he interviewed
me and thanked me for coming in and said, we're
going to learn to fight this division, new
division, new farm division. We're going to learn
to fight it. We're going to learn to do it together
and I expect you to meet all the standards and all
that. I said, yes, sir, and I saluted. When I got to
my unit that I was assigned to, that's when I found
out that You're going to be in this battalion,
Major Fry said to me, and on field exercise you're
going to work with Colonel Patton. He'd already
called him up and told him, you see. Why do you think
he picked you? I don't know. Maybe he liked the way I
looked, the way I wore my uniform or something.
Maybe he liked the way I talked. You know, you can
talk to, you can look at a guy, just like I told you, a
little earlier about yourself. See, I didn't have
to talk to you about a couple of minutes and look at
you. You see what I mean? If you've been involved in
this business of leadership, see? Oh, yes, it
doesn't take many. I didn't know that then. What
kind of leader? A lot of controversy is around Pat
and his form of leadership. What did you think of
his form? Let me give you an example.
He had put out a message
to all the regiments
that he did not want to see any more tanks being
driven around in training exercises with the
hatches open. He said, I want all the hatches down
and locked and learn to live that way because
you're training for battle. That makes sense,
doesn't it? So I had all of the tanks of the whole
battalion, me being the only second lieutenant
and being the training officer and not knowing
anything, the only one thing else, and company
commander, first lieutenant, had other things to
do. And so I would take all the tanks out in the field
every day for training. 300 tanks? No, no, 56 tanks
for the battalion. 300 was in the regiment, and now
in a division. I mean in the division, 300 in the
division. Back in those days we had 56 per
battalion and three battalions so you'd see 162.
But anyway, I was out in the training area
and we'd been out there all day and we'd carried
along a sack lunch, and we were supposed to get back
in and do maintenance on all these vehicles, and
then we had some classwork that we had to go to,
classes on subjects.
So, at a place called Turkey Ford, the water run
down through this creek, and we called that a ford
there, Turkey Ford, famous area there and the old
reservation at Fort Benning.
The memorandum that he had published had
been sent out, but it had not reached
the battalion level, or at least the distribution
hadn't gotten down to the companies yet.
He had put the message out, and he's out now
checking to see if it's being complied with and why
it wasn't being complied with if it wasn't. In
other words, this is a principle. You put
something out, now go check to see that it's been
done. That's
what he was doing. Well, I crossed Turkey Ford. I
was leading the tank back in. And I had the turrets
open because this is a small dirt road. And I
thought, well, I should have these turrets open so
I'd call the fellas on the radio, give them
signals. We had flags for signals which open your
turrets because otherwise, so we can, we'd been
driving with them closed out on the range, out in
the woods. So you were no longer in the battle area?
We were no longer in the battle area. We were
leaving. And were they closed when you were in the
battle area? Yes, they were closed in the battle
area, but this was just a road through the woods
coming back. Going back to the base. Going back to
where I went into Cassetta Road, which is a
blacktop road. And I knew I had to have them open
then. That had been specifically brought out
without anybody for safety reasons. Well, we were
on his road. His staff car, I noticed his staff car
parked back off in the woods. We come down through
Turkey Ford water, come up on the tank on the front,
and we come out of there. And, man, he walked out on
the road and held it with his hand and stopped. So I
pushed him back in the old days. You just touch the
driver in the back between the shoulders with your
foot there. That's the way he stopped them, so he
stopped. I jumped out of the tank, went over and
slew them. He said, Lieutenant, don't you ever
read these memorandums? I said, yes, sir. He said,
well, then why in the hell aren't you complying
with it? He said, now, if you read these
memorandums, you'll know that you're supposed to
have these turrets closed in your battle area.
You're training for battle. By God, you get them
closed up right now. Yes, sir.
I had seen them around. Did you tell them that? No.
Why not? Oh, no. That was the way it was in those
days. Yes, sir. No, sir. Well, we got on out
Cassetta Road. I knew the safety factor was such
that you got to open them up. We get on Cassetta
Road. We're going about two miles, and we come to
Mike. regimental headquarters
which is in tents across from a place called
Harmony Church and we had to go by there about a mile
in turn to get in our bivouac area where we were
living in tents
and as we approached the regimental headquarters
his staff car was there and he started to pull out
hit the siren button on the tank and the siren went
off and here he jumps out, Patton jumps out of his
car again, this is the second time today, and
stopped my tank column. This time I was getting a
little shook up about this business, frightened
really, because
I thought for a second lieutenant to be called on
the mat twice a day is a little bit too much. And I was
feeling unkindly toward the driver who
automatically hit the siren. And so I jumped out of
the tank. What was the siren so the staff car would
not come out on the road? Yeah, that's exactly what
the driver was doing. He gave him a warning. Yeah,
exactly. And why wasn't that not a good idea? It
was, but I was shook up about it. No, let me finish
with this. I get out and I report to him.
He said, Lieutenant, why did you blow that siren? I
didn't say, I didn't, sir. The driver did. I said,
Sir, the driver blew that siren because he wanted
to warn you that we were coming through, and he
didn't want to hit your vehicle. He said,
Lieutenant, that is a way to use your head. That is a
damn fine action on your whole crew's part, and
thank you very much, and good luck to you.
I can't put this what I thought then on here, but I
said, oh, God.
He visited me many times, and I worked with him, and
I just thought he was great. Here one time he was
admonishing me for not doing what I didn't, you
know, I didn't know what I was doing, but I accepted
that. And then the second time, a little soldier
does something that's, you're unconscious of him
doing and you and the little soldier all get
complimented on what the little soldier did. And
I've been complimented so many times on what the
soldier did that I didn't do. And that makes you a
very humble man and very respectful of the heart
and mind and the soul of others.
So Georgie was a human being like the rest of us.
Regardless of how much experience you had or how
old you are, if you're going to do something, if
you're going to do anything at all, if you're going
to make a contribution in life, you're going to
make mistakes. And I don't care if you're 90 years
old or you're six months old. That's just exactly
the way it is. That's a principle. That's a known
part of the art of life. Now, if you do something,
you're going to make a contribution, one way or the
other. Either it's going to be good or it's going to
be bad. I think it was Napoleon, a Chinese
philosopher, I can't remember his name, told me
one time, He learned more from making mistakes
than he did from doing things right.
Now, of course, Patton came into a lot of
controversy later on in his career when he was in
the hospital in Sicily and slapped that young man
and also when he was driving into Germany and and
many of the other generals of Eisenhower's staff
thought that he was trying to grab all the glory at
their expense. And of course, he had a feud with
Field Marshal Montgomery, too. Were you
involved, or do you have opinions of any of those
episodes? Well, I was in Sicily during the
slapping incidents, and I was in Normandy before
Georgie was for the Third Army. you
know you gather information if you're interested
from those that you see that were present and
hearsay from others and when it's hearsay you
always question whether it's right or wrong
unless you got the art of Cornelius Ryan, and I
spent four years on a book and researched back and
forth everything that there is, and you don't,
you're not writing a book on what's happening,
you're trying to just, for your own interest, find
out what's happened, so you do get a fair feel, I
think, of generally what's happening. What did
you, what about the slapping incident here in
Sicily? What was the feeling among the officers
and the troops? Nobody paid any attention to that
sort of thing. This is all a press explosion. Press
explosion. Nobody pays any attention to it. You
see, one of the principles that you have in the
military is that the officer never lays a hand on an
enlisted man.
I can't tell you the million times that I walked up
and put my arm around a little soldier that had done
a hell of a good job and then pinned a medal on him or
just walked up and shook hands with him and talked
to him when he's the most lonesome guy in the whole
battlefield and I know what it does to him and I
violated all rules never lay a hand on a soldier
and they just love it.
I don't condone striking anybody in the military
and civilian life. What the hell's to be gained
from that? It's a compulsion. It's a driving sense
of respect for others in the case of Georgie Patton
that he sensed a guy.
that was trying to shirk his duties
when soldiers out there were being killed and
maimed and lying in the hospital dying. And here's
a whimpering guy sitting over there, by his very
nature,
may or may not have been able to control his fears.
And Georgie instantaneously,
not,
with a dead sense of
dedication to those that are dead out there,
slapped this guy with his gloves.
Well, isn't that bad? Yeah, I guess it is. Is it
worthy of being exploding in the newspaper and so
on and forth? No.
Was it worthy of the condemnation of Georgia
Patton by Eisenhower and so on and forth?
Eisenhower being a political general, in his
mind, obviously yes, if you're a politician, if
you're a political general. You see, Mr.
Eisenhower ducked World War II. He'd never heard a
shot fired in anger.
Georgie won the distinguished service cross with
a shot up leg on the front end of a an old tank in World
War I. So you got different characters there.
Bradley, he'd had a little or no combat experience
during World War II.
And same with the rest of them. They were in three
and four star positions. Georgie had. Georgie was
a combat leader. And that's quite different from
the staff types. And all that you had sitting at the
top during World War II were the staff types.
Except Georgie and maybe one or maybe two others.
And I can't think of who the others might be right at
the moment.
He has received criticism that he pushed his men
too hard. What about that? Soldiers, American,
red-blooded American soldiers, you can't push
them too hard
because they like the challenge. They like the
adventure and like the challenge, and they were
born with it, and by God, they want it there, and you
can't give them too much to do. I always looked at it
this way. Don't expect them to go beyond their
capability, and you've got to make a judgment on
their capability. It's like closing off the
Aurora Pocket in January, I guess it was, of 1945.
We went five days and five nights without any
sleep. Nobody complained about that. sure tank
crews would go to sleep or you'd stop if they
weren't in action and all the actions up front and
they'd get ready to move somebody had to go those
that weren't totally involved in the battle you
had to go wake them up well you'd say what are you
doing right there no you don't do that say look get
going here damn it stay up let's get up go get going
um Well, did I push them too hard or did the division
commander push me too hard? That doesn't ever
enter anybody's mind. That never really enters
anybody's mind. I don't think you can be pushed too
hard. There's an inspiring thing about battle to
succeed and you always look to the leader because
he's the oldest
you would you hope with the most judgment and most
wisdom and uh you know when you're 25 years old and
you command 3,000 people I guess I was the oldest
uh as little judgment and wisdom as I had I guess I
was the oldest everybody looked I know my sergeant
major was 19 with one year out of University of
Tennessee and his name is Rip Thornton. He's CPA
now. And he is absolutely phenomenal because my
sergeant major got killed on the beach in Normandy
who had about 15 years service. What a heck of a guy.
I had no one. You don't get replacements for those
people. So I just took my clerk who had what we
called T-4 back in those days. He'd be a buck
sergeant now, 19 years old. You're the sergeant
major. If you haven't learned from him, the dead
one, I said, you and I will make a few mistakes
together. He said, Roger that, sir. So we went on
with it. Now let's go back to North Africa. Tell me
about your campaign now. North Africa was a
disaster. The whole campaign in North Africa
started out as kind of after the landing. After the
Second Armored Division and the Ninth Infantry
Division landed down at Puerto Leote and Safi and
took Casablanca, they went to Cork Forest and
retrained there. We fought the French for three
days. The French finally gave up. And then—
Actually, you were in combat with the French? With
the French, yeah. You fought the hell out of them,
yeah. Really? Oh, yeah. Three days. Mm-hmm. So
they get capitulated on the 11th of November. You
got to understand, I was not there. I was down in
another census or something. But I got there
immediately after that and went back to my
regiment in 67.
was the 68th. When it started out, we reorganized
and we ended up with two regiments. We just had a
66th and a 67th regiment because the 68th was a
light tank regiment and we split it up amongst the
other two medium regiments. Because we just had so
damn many tanks, you couldn't handle them all in
the division. So how many were you in charge of? I
was in charge of, at the end of the war. No, right at
the beginning. Oh, 17. Okay. Seventeen. Three
platoons of five inch in each and two in the
headquarters. Okay. And you usually rode in the
first one? Rode in the first tank. Yeah, company
commander tank. Okay. And then you uh—after
the— Where was the first action that you saw? Up in
Tunisia.
The background on that is— The 1st
Armored Division and the 1st Infantry Division
had landed at Oran, Algiers. Simultaneously with
the 2nd Armored and the 9th Infantry landing down
at Casablanca and taking Casablanca.
The High Command was worried about
We were in French Morocco and we had the other
Morocco there, Spanish Morocco. We didn't know
which way the Spanish were going to go and they'd
been playing footsie with the Germans. A lot of
Germans down there in Spanish Morocco and we
thought that they were going to try pull some kind
of leg up and sabotage the deal to bust our supply
lines against Rommel's forces over there in the
8th Army, British 8th
Army. Meantime, the 1st Infantry and the 1st
Armored go through Algiers into Tunisia, and
they're up at Kasserine Pass in the general area.
Had a corps commander named General Friedenthal
His performance along with the 1st Armored
Division commander's performance was not
to the high command's liking and wasn't
acceptable to anybody, so they both were
relieved. Meantime, Georgie, they had a hell of a
lot of losses, tank losses.
Georgie still commanded the Western Task Force,
which was the second arm of the 9th Army Division.
General Ernie Harmon had the
second Army Division at the time. Georgie was
selected to go take that second corps under
Kasserine Pies. And doing so, he took tank units
and officers with him, kind of borrowed them out of
the 2nd Armored Division to go up there to
reestablish until they could get replacements,
get tanks, and that sort of stuff, because he had to
get on it. And that's how I got involved up there.
And so you were one of the ones that he took. And then
I ended up at Berzerdi. at the end of the war. The
rest of the Second Armored Division was preparing
for Sicilian operation. But that's where you met
Rommel, up at the Kasserine Pass? No, I fought some
of his units. I had met him. Yeah, that's where I
went. You fought some of his units? Yeah. Now would
you comment on the quality of Rommel's tank
commanders?
I guess they're the best soldiers that I've ever
fought against. They're not as tenacious
as the Communists. I don't know what the
Communists do to their soldiers, but the tenacity
of them is pretty damn effective, pretty strong. A
German soldier, he had a warrior. like American.
When he's totally surrounded, he doesn't fight
the last man and that sort of crap.
I haven't seen many American units do that either.
There's no hatred, I don't believe, among
soldiers. In other words, your men didn't hate the
Germans that much? They sort of respected them as
soldiers? Yeah, you've got to respect them or
they're going to kick hell out of you. You know what
I'm talking about? You've got to respect their
capabilities. And by God, they better respect
yours, too, or he'll get his damn clock cleaned. So
that's the way it is amongst warriors, you know. No
question about it. Hell, you know, you don't hate
the enemy as a person. Much dislike as I have for
communism,
those soldiers out there are people, you know. And
he's out there under orders to kill you or to do
this, that, and the other. And hopefully someday
our country will get back to the fact that it won't
be a sin to kill an enemy soldier when you're in
battle instead of trying to love him to death. That
happens in any country wherein politicians get
involved in telling generals how in the hell to
fight the battle and what targets he ought to hit
and that sort of stuff. When you get into that, you
can be criticized for saying to the press that
you're going to kill the enemy before he gets back
in Cambodia. And you can get criticized to beat
hell like I did. Well, I was out to destroy the
enemy, and I had to keep them from killing my
soldiers. Yeah, well, we're going to get to that.
So, tell me about your first contact in battle.
Well, I guess you're very frightened, but if
you've learned to do everything right during your
training,
it helps you to overcome your fear as you gain
confidence. a tremendous amount of confidence by
being successful.
That's the truth. What was the situation at the
Kasserine's house? The situation was that the
Germans had created a ruse. They had come out to
attack us. And what they had done was, and which we
couldn't see, was that they were towing anti-tank
guns behind their tanks. In other words, here
comes about ten tanks, a lot of dust being stirred
up in the desert, a lot of noise. And you were up on
high ground. I was up on high ground. And I could see
the ten tanks. Yeah, yeah. And they're coming out
of range. So they...